# image-classifier-star-wars-
This is an image classifier using Tensorflow and python

- Please refer to this video for the tutorial https://youtu.be/QfNvhPx5Px8.  Credits to Siraj for this tutorial and challenge.
- You can also refer to this link to help with the tutorial, as mentioned by Siraj: https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/tensorflow-for-poets/?utm_campaign=chrome_series_machinelearning_063016&utm_source=gdev&utm_medium=yt-desc&authuser=1#0
- You may also refer to another git hub repository that helps explain steps in building this image classifier: github.com/hiteshvaidya/Star-wars-classifier
- This repository was built to explain my process since I continuted to face difficulties aside from the help attained by the sources mentioned above.  This classifier was built using Windows 8.1 standard edition.  

The star wars image classifier is explained and executed in 7 steps.  The steps taken by me differ a bit to work with the windows 8.1 system since I encountered errors and I want to note that I am beginner to Tensorflow.

Step 1) Install Docker - To install docker you'll need to ensure that you have visualization enabled on your computer; the requirements for Docker are explained on the Docker site.  You can check this by going to your task manager and click the tab 'Performance' and near the botton right corner you should see 'Visualization.'  If it shows disabled then you need to go through the BIOS to enable it.  Since I'm using windows 8.1 standard, the Hyper-V client does not come with the machine, therefore the Docker Toolbox will need to be installed.  It contains everything necessary, including the Oracle VM virtual box. Note: If you have a windows version that contains Hyper-V, once visualization is enabled or if already enabled, check to see if you have Hyper-V enabled.  To do this, you may follow this tutorial - https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/canitpro/2014/03/10/step-by-step-enabling-hyper-v-for-use-on-windows-8-1/

Step 2) Install the TensorFlow Image on the Docker VM - Type the code as mentioned and shown by Siraj in the tutorial.  Once you see the '#' you'll know it is complete and that you have installed the TF image.

Step 3) Download the dataset - You'll need to download two datasets - one for Darth Vader and the other for Darth Maul - to be able to compare to each other for your image classifier.  Downloading and using the google add-in Fatkun helps, as mentioned in the video.  Once you've made your image directory, you can move your image datasets to the directory.  Since I had trouble in the future steps with linking my image directory with TF, I decided to create a folder tf_files, and two more folders (not just one as mentioned in the video and I'll explain why): star_wars and star_wars2.  The star_wars folder was created in order to store the folders that would be created in step 7 as well as my python script, and star_wars2 is used as the image directory. Note that I placed star_wars2 in the star_wars folder because of step 4.  To move your image folders (named 'darth vader' and 'darth maul'), first cd into the folder where you want to store the image folders, in my case I used cd /tf_files/star_wars/star_wars2/ Once you are in the folder move the image folders using: 
mv $HOME/Downloads/darth\ vader . you should then see the darth vader folder in your star_wars2 folder.  Enure you hit spacebar then period {.} after '\ vader' 

Step 4) Linking the Tensorflow image to the dataset - the method used in the tutorial did not work for me.  I created the folders as mentioned in the tutorial, however I noticed upon linking that the tf_files folder was not visible and only the star_wars folder was visible.  I also noticed that by checking the contents of the star_wars folder, the image folders 'darth vader'and 'darth maul' were not visible and this means that during the linking process all the contents were not linked. How to check this: 1) once you've linked your tf_files with the TF image you should see the '#.' After the # you can type 'ls /' and will show you your folders.  When I executed this, I only saw star_wars and not tf_files as I should have, therefore to link the TF image and my folders I used 'docker run -it -v $HOME/tf_files/star_wars:/tf_files/star/wars/ gcr.io/tensorflow/tensorflow:latest-devel
check that your folders and all contents are there and are linked.  You can check by using the cd command to get into the folder and to get out you can use cd as well. cd /tf_files/star_wars/  and you should see the darth vader and darth maul folders

Step 5) Downloading the training script - make you type cd /tensorflow/ to get into the tensorflow folder.  Once in, type the git pull to download the script as mentioned in the tutorial

Step 6) Retrain the model - the python script is used for retraining the model.  I stored the python script in my star_wars folder because upon linking in step 4, my python script was not contained in the tf_files folder if I stored it there, therefore I moved it to the star_wars folder and upon linking I could see my python script in my star_wars folder.  Since it is then visible, you can then run the script from terminal and should execute

Step 7) Classify.
